[update] MD-4: Postconfirmation Gas costs and rewards (#96)
movementlabsxyz/MIP: MD/md-4/rollover-gas.md

> # Rollover Gas

Author: general comment from previous PR 

- it is difficult to understand the problems as MD-4 is missing some context. I strongly recommend to give an introduction, otherwise readers will be very lost. One para in the overview would do.
- in particular it is not clear why the utility functions would be valid.
- it is not clear why all attesters have only costs but no rewards (U_n) , while the last attester has a revenue (U_l)
- without a minimal description of the protocol it is not feasible to understand why there is a liveness issue

In conclusion the issues that the model attempts to describe seem to be caused by the fact that there is a reward to being last, and where the winner is hard to predict.

However this seems not desireable, causes equilibria games, and overall raises the question of why there are liveness questions in first place. I would ask if not a better design can be found, for example based on randomization of leaders, which may be not difficult given this is handled on L1

The current suggestion for the implementation of MCR is to offset the gas costs for the last attester. This would be done transparently, by rewarding the last attester for their work in additional compensation for this gas cost. This would be a simple solution to the problem of disincentivizing the last attester. However, this solution is naive as it may incentivize an attempt to be the last attester--introducing an incentive for latency to the chain.

## Base Model
We model the utility of the offset as follows...

```math
\begin{align}

> &U_{n} = -E[G_{\mu}] \\

Author: definition mu missing

> &U_{l} = \delta(|\mathcal{V}|)U_{o} - E[G_{\mathcal{V}}] \\

Author: definition U_o missing and not clear

\end{align}
```
$U_{n}$ is the utility of any attester that is not last.

> $U_{l}$ is the utility of the last attester.

Author: define utility more precisely

$E [.] is the expectation value of a variable.$

$E[G]$ is the expected gas cost modeled as a random variable $G$.

> $\delta(|\mathcal{V}|)$ is reward rate determined by the number of validators in the set $\mathcal{V}$.

Author: need better definitions and explanations: 

- V is the complete set of validators?
- why is the reward rate determined by the number of validators

> Note that $G \not\!\perp\!\!\!\perp \delta(|\mathcal{V}|)$, i.e. $G$ is not independent on \delta(|\mathcal{V}|)$, as the gas cost is a function of the number of validators in the set. This will be addressed in later sections.

Author: do you mean G_V rather than G in that sentence? Is U_n random? if so its worth pointing out that G_mu is random but G_V is a function of previous values

> For an attester with complete information not to attempt to be last, $E[U_{n}] > E[U_{l}]$ which would imply that the $\delta(|\mathcal{V}|) < g(|\mathcal{V}|)$ where $g$ the gas algebra applied be Ethereum. 

Author: ```suggestion
An attester with complete information can follow a strategy such that she hardly comes last, i.e. $E[U_{n}] > E[U_{l}]$. This implies that $\delta(|\mathcal{V}|) < g(|\mathcal{V}|)$ where $g$ be the gas cost on Ethereum. 
```

> For an attester with complete information not to attempt to be last, $E[U_{n}] > E[U_{l}]$ which would imply that the $\delta(|\mathcal{V}|) < g(|\mathcal{V}|)$ where $g$ the gas algebra applied be Ethereum. 

Author: Why $\delta(|\mathcal{V}|) < g(|\mathcal{V}|)$

## Incomplete Information
More realistically, an attester is unlikely to obtain complete information about whether she would be last. 

> To model this, we will say an attester can play two strategies $L$ and $N$ where $L$ is the strategy to attempt to be last and $N$ is the strategy to avoid being last. The utility of these strategies is given by...

Author: ```suggestion
To model this, we will say an attester can play two strategies $L$ and $N$ where $L$ is the strategy to attempt to be last and $N$ is the strategy to avoid being last. The utility of these strategies is given by...
```
